One more new educational institution opened its doors this year in Burgas. The Vocational School of Coding and Innovations had its start in the 2018/2019 school year.
The campus for the new school is that of the former Professional Technical School in the “Meden Rudnik” Housing Complex of Burgas. To meet the requirements all the buildings, facilities and the big dorm which is part of the complex have been completely renovated.
In the first year 104 students were enrolled in the 8th grade. They will study in the professional field of “Computer Sciences”, job title “Programmer”, specialization in „Software Maintenance“ and “Applied Programming”. Students will enroll after finishing their 7th grade studies, and study at the school for 5 years.
All contemporary programming languages will be taught at the school: Java, C#, C++, JavaScript, „.NET“.
<end>
Hello dear students and parents,

My name is Dimitrina Todorova and I am the director of the newest school in Burgas - the Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation, which will open its doors on September 1 this year.

I love new technology. All my many years of experience as a teacher of mathematics, informatics and information technology are proof of this affection of mine.
<end>

specialty "Software Assurance"
Solving the diverse and complex tasks in computer systems is accomplished by repeatedly executing multiple program codes. Such a series of systematized and logically related codes is called a program. To realize all the capabilities of computer systems, complex programs are needed that reduce complex information tasks to a finite number of simple commands and instructions intended for end users. This part of the computer package is called software. Its importance for the development of CS /computer systems/ is enormous. Currently, the development of software for CS is a powerful industry - a software industry that even surpasses the hardware industry in terms of revenue and employment.
Students graduate with the profession of "Programmer" after passing the State exam in the specialty.

<end>
specialty "Applied Programming"
The purpose of the specialty is to enable students to acquire knowledge and skills that will allow them to work as programmers - developers of application programs. The software development market requires the implementation of individual projects intended for companies or a typed group of users. This necessitates the development of application programs that load on all kinds of devices, and this industry is among the most dynamically developing in the sector.
Graduates of this major will understand fundamental areas of computer technology and information systems, computers, networks and databases, and demonstrate practical skills in managing these technologies; to know new technologies and their impact on business strategies; communicate effectively with software engineers, system analysts, hardware engineers, communications engineers and end users to provide appropriate solutions to business problems; demonstrate skills to work effectively as a team member and as a project manager.

<end>
specialty "Artificial Intelligence Programming"
AI engineers use many programming languages ​​in their work, but can identify a few that most often meet the needs of the project they are working on.
Before we look at programming languages, we need to define what artificial intelligence means. Nowadays, it becomes a big part of our life with the advantages it has. It makes our lives easier and the trends are to continue. Artificial intelligence is being successfully integrated not only into the everyday life of the average user, but also into businesses. Its development would not have been possible without significant improvements in programming languages. The need for experienced professionals, as well as for new or improved programming languages, is increasing many times compared to a few years ago. There is no one programming language that is universally valid for the development of artificial intelligence.
Students will start their learning with Python. The language is defined as an experiment in how much freedom programmers need. If they are given too much, they risk that no one will be able to read someone else's code, and if it is too small, free expression is threatened. In Python, the two conditions balance. It is flexible and also platform independent. It is characterized by short and clear codes instead of long and trivial ones. It is second in popularity among programming languages ​​not only for artificial intelligence, but also in general. Additionally, in the first high school stage, they will study JavaScript.

<end>
specialty "Robot Programming"
Robot programming is the newest specialty approved for the admission plan in Bulgaria for the academic year 2022-2023. It is the result of the economic entities' demand for specialists who can manage partially robotic or fully robotic production and logistics systems. This major will include training in the first high school stage of the basic programming language C++ as well as Java Script, as well as familiarization with the basic concepts of microelectronic components. In-depth knowledge of mathematics and physics as well as spatial thinking is required. In the second high school stage, study disciplines related to mechanics, microelectronics, 3D design and printing, the Internet of Things, etc. will be included.

<end>

We are proud to announce the outstanding achievements of our students at the National External Assessment (NEC) in Bulgarian Language and Literature (BEL), Mathematics (MAT), English Language (AE) and Information Technology and Digital Competence (ITIDK).<end>Our students showed a high level of literacy and skills in Bulgarian language and literature. The average score of our school is 64.09. We congratulate all the students for their diligent efforts and their teacher Anelia Petrova for her excellent preparation and diligence over the years. The best in the class are:<end>Demetra Karagyozova
Dimitar Dimov
Nadezhda Ivanova
Polina Dineva
Martin Stoyanov
Lazar Apostolov
Dimitar Georgiev
Martin Velkov
Teodor Tanev
Ivaylo Dandarinov<end>Maths performance is good, but we expect more in this area from everyone next year. The students had very good knowledge and logical thinking, and many of them achieved the maximum result. This score of 59.26 is the work and dedication of both the students and their teachers. We thank Gergana Pavelova for the preparation. The best students in the class are:<end>Anastasia Gorskaya
Stiliyan Mishev
Dennis Yussain
Miroslav Chobanov
Christina Zheleva
Dimitar Dimov
Valeria Chavdarova
Nadezhda Ivanova
Kaloyan Georgiev
Stoyan Ivanov
Ennis Mustafa
Martin Belchev
Sergey Toptunov<end>The outstanding results of 81.86 in English reflect the high level of language proficiency in our school. The students did brilliantly in all parts of the exam, showing excellent communication skills and deep knowledge. We thank Rositsa Naydenova, who with great patience leads the class to success. The best students in the class are:<end>Bozhidar Dimov
Martin Belchev
Teodora Lozeva
Stoyan Ivanov
Emma Georgieva
Alex Kazakov
Georgi Ivanov
Ivaylo Bachvarov
Nadezhda Ivanova
Georgi Filipov<end>In the area of ​​Information Technology and Digital Competence, our students also performed at a high level. They demonstrated problem-solving skills and applied knowledge that are key to success in today's digital world. Viktor Stoev and Danaila Stamatova are the teachers who prepared them. The best students in the class are:<end>Nadezhda Ivanova
Bozhidar Dimov
Denis Yussain
Martin Belchev
Ivan Stoychev
Stoyan Ivanov
Valeria Chavdarova
Iva Nedkova
George Atanasov
Christina Zheleva<end>We congratulate all the students on their outstanding achievements and thank the teachers for their tireless work and dedication. These results are a testament to the consistent level of training and preparation we offer.<end>We wish all the students much success in the future and we believe that they will continue to delight us with their successes and achievements!<end>
It is with great joy and pride that we would like to inform you that the 9th grade students of our school have achieved outstanding success in the International JavaScript exam organized by the International Testing Service (ITS).<end>All of our students who sat for the 85 exam showed excellent results, with some of them even scoring over 900 marks. Their hard work, persistence and enthusiasm for programming have been rewarded with high marks and recognition at the international level.<end>We want to express special thanks to our informatics teachers Krasimir Vatev and Simona Dimitrova, who tirelessly prepared the students for this prestigious exam. Your dedication and professionalism are a major factor in this success.<end>Also, we thank the parents for their support and encouragement of their children during the exam preparation.<end>This success is just the beginning of building their professional portfolio for our talented students. We believe that their success will serve as an inspiration to all students and motivate them to pursue and achieve even higher goals.
The highest scores were achieved by:<end>Once again, congratulations to our excellent students and the entire school team! Keep moving forward and conquering new heights!<end><end>
<end>
Dear successful graduates and parents,
We are pleased to invite you to the official graduation ceremony of the 2024 Graduation of Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation - Burgas!
The event will take place on 19.06.2024 at the high school, from 10:00 a.m.
PROGRAM
10:00 a.m. Official opening
10:15 a.m. Congratulatory addresses to the class of 2024
10:30 a.m. Presentation of diplomas<end>We look forward to seeing you to celebrate the achievements of the young graduates together!<end>With respect,
The team of the Vocational High School for Computer Programming and Innovation - Burgas<end>
Dear Seniors,<end>We inform you that every high school senior can get acquainted with the review of his written work in person in the presence of representatives of the committees on 10.06.2024 /Monday/ from 08:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. in offices O107 and O108, subject to following conditions:<end>Written work of the student is not photographed, recorded, printed and taken out of the hall. Consideration of other written works is also not allowed.<end>
Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation organizes Open Days on June 3 to 7 from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. The visitors' guides will be the students of the high school, who know in detail the environment and activities of the high school. They will help future high school students get into the spirit of this new high-tech high school, its indoor activities, special and labs, student council, our beautiful courtyard and sports fields.
The virtual walk will give you an idea of ​​the physical environment.
https://webobook.com/public/62582f73ff295377c802ad62,en#<end>Come and explore our challenging school day, complement robotics and programming, our all-school sports days, our art and debating clubs. Get to know us and if you choose us, we will be happy to welcome you in the fall in our learning rhythm, rhythm full of code!
Link to the event:
https://www.facebook.com/share/b9PBFqK7i9Sid67U/<end> <end>
We are proud to announce the remarkable success of our students from the Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation in Burgas in the English language exams for the Cambridge Examination Board. These achievements are the result of hard work, dedication and exceptional professionalism of our students and their teachers.<end>In the last exam session, over 60% of the graduating class successfully passed their exams, with a large number of them achieving high scores. Among them, the following stand out:<end><end>These successes are a testament to the high level of training and dedication of our students to their academic and personal growth. The English language preparation program at our high school is designed to develop and improve students' language skills, giving them a competitive edge in their future academic and professional endeavors.<end>Our experience shows that students in 8th grade do well and cover level B1 already at the end of 8th grade, as proof of this is their successful defense at the level of the Cambridge Examination Board's international certificate exams. Accordingly, in 9th and 10th grade they work effectively at levels B2 and B2+ according to the Common European Language Framework. As an important proof of the successful intensive training organized in this way is the appearance and defense of the C1 level in the 11th grade by more than 60% of all students.<end>The remarkable achievements of our students are not a one-off, but part of an ongoing trend of high Cambridge exam results that has been seen in recent years. Every year, the number of students who successfully pass the exams increases, and more and more of them achieve excellent results. This is a reflection of the systematic approach to learning and the innovative methods our teachers apply in the classrooms.<end>The management and teaching staff of the high school would like to express their gratitude to all the students for their persistence and hard work, and to the parents for their constant support. These high achievements are an inspiration to us all and motivate the entire school community to continue to strive for excellence. The high school is an established center for the preparation of students in English.<end>With wishes for many more successes and future victories, we congratulate our students and teachers and encourage them to continue to follow their dreams with confidence and passion!<end>
Strypes Group is a fast-growing company that offers software solution development as a service and consulting in the fields of IT Infrastructure, DevOps, Smart Applications, Remote Monitoring and Diagnostics, IoT and mobile solutions.<end>During the 2023-2024 academic year, Strypes actively participated in the process of conducting production practice by providing a mentor to students of class X.<end>Laura Ilieva is a software engineer at Strypes, has experience in software development and mentoring of young professionals. She is known for her passion for technology and her selfless dedication to training the next generation of IT professionals.<end>The practical classes run by Strypes aim to develop students' skills to deal with common situations in a real work environment.<end>To achieve the set goal, students are assigned tasks related to topics from the world around them. Thus, they have the feeling of creating an application with functionalities useful for real end users.<end>For the implementation of the tasks, the students are divided into small groups. Thus, they have the opportunity to develop skills for teamwork and taking responsibility for the implementation of a given task. In the assignments, students use up-to-date technologies, tailored to their knowledge and skills. Through them, they have the opportunity to deepen their practical skills with Python, git, JSON, etc. In addition to the implementation of the software solution, the students are engaged in the preparation of functional specifications; designing the software solution; adapting the software solution to changes in the assignment; presentation of the product at the end of each completed stage of development.<end>We thank Strypes and Laura for supporting young talents and providing them with opportunities to develop in a real work environment. We believe that with the help of experienced and dedicated mentors like Laura Ilieva, we can contribute to building a strong and successful future for the IT industry in Bulgaria!<end> <end>
The project to build a Center for Excellence in Vocational Education and Training (CVET) is an ambitious initiative that aims to improve the quality of vocational education in Bulgaria. According to the information, the project includes the construction of modern robotics and artificial intelligence (AI) laboratories, which will give students the opportunity to gain knowledge and skills in one of the most innovative and sought-after areas of modern industry.<end>Here are some of the key highlights of the project:<end>This project has the potential to make a significant contribution to the development of professional education in Bulgaria and to prepare a new generation of specialists who are ready to join the technological development of the country and the world.<end>
FOR THE THIRD CONSECUTIVE YEAR, PGKPI STUDENTS WILL PARTICIPATE IN THE WORLD TECHNOLOGY CHAMPIONSHIP IN AMERICA<end>Five students from PGKPI-Burgas have qualified for the Microsoft Office Specialist and Adobe Certified Professional World Championship, which is held annually in the USA. This championship brings together the best students from around the world who compete in the use of Microsoft Office and Adobe products.<end>For the World Championship:<end>Ranking Process:<end>Information about ranked students:<end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end>Prestige and Benefits:<end> <end>
The professions bazaar will be held on May 13th at the "Troikata" square in Burgas, we expect it to become a real platform for exploring future opportunities for students. Organized by RUO-Burgas, with the support of career consultants from the Personal Development Support Center, Burgas Municipality, this bazaar will present a variety of professional paths through presentations, exhibitions and demonstrations.<end>Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation has a confirmed admission plan for the next academic year for majors:<end>Intensive study of English and a second foreign language, German, with the high school providing the opportunity to take international certification exams on the Cambridge and Goethe Institut programs.<end>The high school's technology program includes training in basic and advanced programming languages ​​- C#, JAVA, JavaScript, Python and various career paths for development in technology - web design, graphic design and project management. Students go through a series of projects that develop their knowledge and skills. Certiport and PearsonVUE exam centers have been set up in the high school where students sit for exams.<end>Parallel "Applied Programming" dual education will be a pilot for the high school and the curriculum is not significantly different from the same major in full-time form, but in the 11th and 12th grades their special subjects will be taught by professionals from the partner companies in the new high school technology labs.<end>We expect to meet a lot of interest from parents and students to actively discuss the various educational and future career opportunities for seventh graders.<end>Good luck seventh graders, choose wisely and from the heart!<end>
Sincerely, the Administration of PGKPI<end>


According to the PGKPI certification program, 8th and 9th grade students take certification exams on the Microsoft office suite programs – MS Word 2019 (8th grade) and MS Excel 2019 (9th grade).<end>Students study these technologies in extra classes in Interest Activities. In the academic year 2023-2024, 4 "Computer Modeling" clubs have been formed in the high school with 60 hours each year, in which students from the 8th and 9th grades participate. The heads of these clubs are: Danaila Stamatova, Daniela Pendasheva and Krasimir Vatev. The fact that their mentors in the process of preparing for the certification exam are students from the higher classes is essential for the success of young students.<end>The fact that 96% of students in the 8th and 9th grades have successfully passed an exam through the Certiport certification center also speaks of the good preparation.<end>Validation of knowledge and skills is important for 8th grade students for several reasons:<end><end><end> <end> <end> <end> <end>
We are happy to share the success of the students of the Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation at NOIT 2024.
First place at the Galin Georgiev individual awards
Third place in the team awards Stas Uzunov, David Donchev, Galin Georgiev
Sixth place in the team awards Stoyan Ivanov, Kalin Chervenkov
Ranked projects with high marks Martin Martinov, Soner Solakov, Yegor Semenov.
Well done guys and may these be the first steps to further success!<end><end>

University "Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov", Personal Development Support Center - Burgas Municipality and TechnoLogica company held a Robo challenge Burgas competition for students from 8th to 12th grade. Support was also provided by Musala Soft.<end>The official opening was attended by Prof. Dr. Hristo Bozov, MD, Rector of the University "Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov", Prof. Dr. Irena Markovska, Deputy. rector for quality of education, accreditation and personnel, Prof. Sotir Sotirov, head of the intelligent systems laboratory and Mihail Nenov, deputy mayor for "Education, health care, social activities and youth policies" in the Municipality of Burgas.<end>
From 19 to 21.04.2024, the jubilee XX National Olympiad in Geography and Economics was held in the National High School of Nature and Mathematics, Sofia. The best 127 students from all over the country took their place in the competition at the national level. Professional high school for computer programming and innovations is proud of the achievements of Nadezhda Ivanova, a student of 10B grade, the only representative for the Burgas region in the third competition group. Her geography and economics teacher is Mrs. Andreyana Stoyanova. On the first day of the Olympics, two tests were held, and the first seven participants from the second, third and fourth competition groups continued in the classification for the next round - solving a geographical case study. The participants demonstrated serious knowledge and competences on cases such as "Overpopulation and aging", "Natural risks in Bulgaria and can we manage them" and "Globalization - economic development - regionalization". The best of them will go on to represent our country in the geography competition at the international level. Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovation will continue to motivate and support each of its students who dare to apply their knowledge and skills to the world around us.<end><end>
From 19 to 21.04.2024, the jubilee XX National Olympiad in Geography and Economics was held in the National High School of Nature and Mathematics, Sofia. The best 127 students from all over the country took their place in the competition at the national level. Professional high school for computer programming and innovations is proud of the achievements of Nadezhda Ivanova, a student of 10B grade, the only representative for the Burgas region in the third competition group. Her geography and economics teacher is Mrs. Andreyana Stoyanova. On the first day of the Olympics, two tests were held, and the first seven participants from the second, third and fourth competition groups continued in the classification for the next round - solving a geographical case study. The participants demonstrated serious knowledge and competences on cases such as "Overpopulation and aging", "Natural risks in Bulgaria and can we manage them" and "Globalization - economic development - regionalization". The best of them will go on to represent our country in the geography competition at the international level. Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovation will continue to motivate and support each of its students who dare to apply their knowledge and skills to the world around us.<end><end>

Second place in chess at the regional stage is the team from the Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation!
The zonal round of the 2024 school chess games was held today in Sliven.
PGKPI - Burgas, as the champion of the city, took part in this battle. Well done girls and boys!
The school was represented in group 8-10 by:
Nikolay Zhelev
Egor Grebennikov
Stilyan Mishev
Mariela Dimova
Great kids, strong performance of the team and a little bit of luck didn't make it to the finals, nothing will happen next year♟️<end><end>

On April 17 at 10:30 a.m. Career Forum 8.0 was held with the assistance of the Faculty of Economics at SU "Kliment Ohridski" in Burgas and the participation of companies offering job positions for young people.
✨During two days - April 17, Wednesday and April 18, Thursday, between 10:00 and 16:00, companies and institutions participated in the exhibition area of ​​the National Exhibition and Convention Center:
✅Schwarz IT Bulgaria
✅Experian
✅Management Financial Group (MFG)
✅TechnoLogica
✅Telus Bulgaria
✅Viva Credit
✅National Revenue Agency
✅Britannica
✅Scalefocus
✅Promet Stiil
✅Faculty of Economics of Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski"
✅Branch - Burgas of Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski"
✅Professional high school for computer programming and innovations - Burgas<end><end>
🎉📚 Congratulations to all the participants from the Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation who competed in another exciting edition of the "Viva Mathematics" competition! 📚🎉<end>After the second round, we are proud to announce the finalists:<end>🏆 8th grade:<end>🏆 10th grade:<end>🏆 Grade 12:<end>Congratulations to all participants on their outstanding success! Their commitment and skills in mathematics are inspiring.<end>We also thank their supervisors, Daniela Kirova, Gergana Pavelova, Mariana Koleva and Alexandra Yakimchuk, for their efforts and support in preparing the students.<end>Well done to all the girls and boys for their excellent contribution to the learning community! 🌟📐<end>
The project team "Implementation of measures to improve the environmental education of adolescents in Burgas" under the "Small circular economy grant scheme" under Result 3: "Improved use of resources at the municipal level (circular economy)", Procedure No. BGENVIRONMENT-3.001 - " Small grant scheme circular economy" of the program "Protection of the environment and climate change" of the FM of the EEA 2014-2021, with the program operator MoES, which will be implemented by the Vocational High School for Computer Programming and Innovation, in partnership with the "Georgi" Primary School Benkovski", Profiled High School for Foreign Languages ​​"Vasil Levski" and Prios Kompetanse - Norway, are pleased to invite you to a closing press conference, where realized activities of the project will be presented. The campaigns implemented during the project are:<end>https://green.codingburgas.bg/<end>The event will take place on April 22, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. at the "Flora" Exhibition Center in Burgas.<end><end> <end> <end>
For the second year in a row, the Faculty of Economics organized a career forum at the Sofia University Branch "St. Kliment Ohridski" in the city of Burgas. The event is held in cooperation with the Association of Graduates of the Faculty of Economics of SU (Alumni Club), the Branch of SU in the city of Burgas and the Vocational High School for Computer Programming and Innovation - Burgas, with the support of the Municipality of Burgas. This year's edition of the career forum is entitled "Looking to the future".<end>CAREER FORUM 8.0 Looking to the future
The career forum in the city of Burgas will be officially opened on April 17, Wednesday, at 10:30 a.m. in the Cultural Center "NHK - Burgas". For two days - April 17, Wednesday and April 18, Thursday, between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. in the exhibition area of ​​"NHK - Burgas", anyone interested will be able to meet the career stands of the following participating companies and institutions:<end>Schwarz IT Bulgaria
Experian
Management Financial Group (MFG)
TechnoLogica
TELUS International Bulgaria
Viva Credit
National Revenue Agency
Britannica
Scalefocus
The SU Branch in Burgas, as well as the Faculty of Economics of SU, will also be represented with exhibition stands.
Anyone interested will be able to receive information about the offered specialties, the possibilities for applying, as well as professional realization.<end>Entry is free for anyone interested in visiting the event and finding out first-hand about the career paths offered by the business, the knowledge and skills sought, as well as the conditions and opportunities offered.<end>Among the visitors to the forum will be students from the partner high schools of the Faculty of Economics in the city of Burgas. These are the Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovation and the Commercial High School.<end>The career forum of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Burgas also includes four seminars in the form of a conversation with business leaders - "Leader Talks":<end>on April 17, Wednesday, from 12:00 in the lecture hall of "NHK - Burgas" you will be able to meet Mr. Pencho Dobrev, head of the AI ​​and Data department;
on April 17, Wednesday, from 2:00 p.m. in the lecture hall of "NHK - Burgas" you will be able to participate in a session by a team from the company TechnoLogica on the topic: "Good practices for developing SPA applications with .NET";
on April 18, Thursday, at 12:00 p.m., a seminar will be held with Mr. Damyan Iliev, financial manager at Experian Bulgaria;
on April 18, Thursday, from 2:00 p.m., you will be able to meet Mr. Martin Topalov, data scientist at Management Financial Group Bulgaria.
Do not miss to take advantage of the intriguing opportunities of our career forum in the city of Burgas.<end><end>
The excitement of the success of the Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation continues!<end>Days of Robotics '24 inspired us and brought another first place in the mini sumo category to the talented Ivo Badalov. But the success doesn't stop there! Christian Gaidov, Sergey Toptunov, Lazar Apostolov, Alexander Sivkov and Miroslav Ganev also competed and represented the Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovation with dignity. Well done boys!<end>Their commitment and skills are admirable, and their supervisors, Dimitar Yanakiev and Krasimir Vatev, deserve special recognition for the preparation and support they provide to the participants.<end>This year the competition was held under the patronage of the Ministry of Education and Science (MES) and the Ministry of Innovation and Growth (MIR), and the participants were over 200 creative minds and 50 mentors from all over Bulgaria!<end>Congratulations to everyone for participating and supporting our young talents! Let this day be remembered as another bright proof of strength and exciting achievements in our education!<end>
Good luck to the teams from the Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovations at the microelectronics competition at Ruse University "Angel Kanchev".<end>Congratulations to the teams from the Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovation for their brilliant success at the microelectronics competition at Ruse University "Angel Kanchev"! We are proud to say that our students faced off against the best in the field and emerged victorious! Their commitment, skills and innovative spirit have elevated them to the top of this prestigious competition.<end>Microelectronics play a key role in the modern world, changing the way we interact with the technology around us. The skills and knowledge gained by our students in this field not only sets them apart but also prepares them for future challenges in the industry. This is another confirmation of the high level of education and training provided in our educational institution. Their courage to face challenges and their pursuit of excellence are an inspiration to the entire community.<end>Thank you to the students for their hard work, to the teachers for their unfailing support, and to everyone who contributed to this triumph!<end>Second in the ranking Martin Mechkov, Nikolay Despotov, Dimitar Dimitrov with a score of 98 out of 100.
Fifth in the ranking are Stoyan Ivanov, Kalin Chervenkov and Yoana Simeonova 92 out of 100.
The leaders are Viktor Stoev and Miroslav Zhekov.<end><end>
We are proud to announce that in 2024 Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation (PGKPI) has qualified for the national round of the National Olympiad in Information Technology 8 students who will defend 5 projects developed in a team or individually.<end>We congratulate the participants for their hard work, great work and a lot of knowledge in the IT field and we wish them SUCCESS in the final national round.<end>The ranked projects are:<end>Direction: Big data volumes<end>Authors: Stas Stanimirov Uzunov - PGKPI and Georgi Dimitrov Parnarev - PPMG "Acad. Nikola Obreshkov"<end>The Praisi app is geared toward solving the need for efficient time and financial management when shopping, providing information for better product choices, and helping to strengthen small retail businesses.<end>The main goals that the project enables are:<end>For more information about the "Praisi" project, please visit our site and https://praisi.codingburgas.bg/ and view our advertisement here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FHh0EkadQEA<end>Direction: Big data volumes<end>Authors: Stoyan Stoyanov Ivanov and Kalin Stoyanov Chervenkov<end>The Smart Charging project is an innovative solution aimed at extending the battery life of mobile devices while simultaneously saving energy and reducing the carbon footprint. The project uses technology to communicate with a smart plug (smart plug) and collect data from various sources such as the battery level and temperature of the device. Through the collected data, the charging of the device is regulated, and the user can set the percentage he wants to limit the charging. By default, this percentage is 80%, due to research showing that it is optimal to charge a battery to 80%. By limiting the charging of a battery with the "Smart Charging" application, its life is preserved. Achieving all this requires connecting to a “Shelly” smart contact and connecting it to the app. The entire process of charging and monitoring parameters is performed by the application, monitoring the temperature of the device, preventing overheating, and the battery level every minute. When the set charging level is reached, the app stops the smart contact, continues to connect with it, and stops charging.   The app also provides important statistics on battery life, energy saved, charging process, remaining charge time and battery temperature.<end>In the development process of the project, up-to-date technologies and methods were used, including Flutter and Dart for the mobile application. The project includes integration with "Shelly" smart contacts and the "Shelly Cloud" cloud platform. The main contribution of the project is the possibility to develop a system that not only optimizes the charging of the devices, but also contributes to the sustainable use of energy and the lifespan of the batteries.<end>Direction: Distributed Applications<end>Authors: Galin Georgiev Georgiev and David Nikolaev Donchev<end>Kompot Loyalty is a pioneer on the Bulgarian market when it comes to digitizing loyalty cards. We aim to provide our clients with a way to be more attractive to their customers and at the same time receive valuable information about their loyalty program. Kompot also has a focus on the environment and reducing the pollution caused by paper loyalty cards.<end>Our goal is to create an innovative digital loyalty platform that transforms the way service businesses manage their loyalty programs. Through Kompot Loyalty, our goal is to provide businesses with a smart and easy way to attract and retain customers, providing them with valuable analytics and data about their customer behavior. We believe this innovation not only facilitates customer interaction, but also helps businesses grow and succeed in today's digital world.<end>Direction: Distributed Applications<end>Author: Martin Martinov<end>The goal of the project is to create a "Control Panel for the Administration of Virtual Servers in the Cloud". The control panel allows users to manage and monitor their virtual servers that reside in their chosen cloud environment. Users can easily deploy, configure, and manage their virtual servers, as well as access a variety of tools and resources to monitor and maintain their servers. The application solves the problem of providing a centralized and user-friendly interface for managing and administering virtual servers in the cloud. This may include tasks such as provisioning new virtual servers, monitoring server performance and resource usage, managing network and security configurations, and performing server updates and maintenance. By providing these capabilities in one, easily accessible place, the application can streamline the process of managing and maintaining virtual servers, making it more efficient and less time-consuming for administrators.<end>The project has a high level of complexity due to the integration with external cloud services, the need for security and user data management, as well as the variety of functionalities that must be implemented in the control panel.<end>Direction: Big data volumes<end>Authors: Soner Solakov and Yegor Semenov<end>The application presents an interactive map that shows the geographical distribution of influenza cases in different regions. Regions with a higher concentration of diseased are marked with more saturated colors and special markers for easy recognition.<end>Users will have access to statistics and data on the number of flu cases in different regions, as well as trends in the spread of the virus.<end>The app provides alerts for areas with a high concentration of flu cases, as well as advice on precautions and procedures to prevent the spread of the virus.<end>Real-time updates provides up-to-date data and statistics that are updated at regular intervals in real-time to provide users with the most accurate information.<end>
<end>As a leading company providing flexible software solutions and services for a number of Fortune 500 companies and leaders in various industry verticals, Scalefocus also works to develop the IT ecosystem in Bulgaria and the region. A main focus for the company is the promotion of young IT talents.<end>During the current 2023/2024 academic year, Scalefocus actively participates in the process of organizing production practices and preparing the graduating students from PGPKI, Burgas for the upcoming State exam for acquiring a professional qualification. The company provided experienced mentors in the form of Martin Tabakov, Nikolay Velchev, Rodion Mihaliev, who work with the students, giving them the opportunity to gain valuable professional experience and establish connections with potential employers before completing their studies.<end>With the help of their mentors, students present a variety of projects that demonstrate a high level of commitment and innovative thinking. Each of them has devoted many hours of study, design and programming to create something that not only satisfies them, but also has the potential to contribute positively to society. The topics that the students develop are very diverse - Web Application for Digitizing Family Tree, Electronic Management System for a Pharmacy Chain, Platform for Cataloging Project Activities, Electronic Self-Learning System for Musicians, and Food Ordering and Delivery and Reservation System .<end>Georgi Karagogov is a lecturer with us for the first year and we thank him for his expert work and learning resources created especially for students. His professionalism and commitment play a key role in the successful development of the learning process and the preparation of young specialists for the challenging tasks facing the technological sector. Thanks to his knowledge and efforts, students gain valuable knowledge and practical skills that will help them in their future careers in the field of information technology.<end>We thank Scalefocus for the continued cooperation with the Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation, which provides professional development opportunities for young people. A special thank you to the mentors for their willingness to share their professional experience and help guide students in the right direction for their careers in technology.<end>
At the end of last year and the beginning of this year, Adastra employees visited the Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation in the city of Burgas to share their experience and knowledge with students from the XI and XII grades. The lectures were part of Adastra's initiative to collaborate with the education community and provide professional development opportunities for young people.  Adastra is a global IT consulting company that offers world-class data services and solutions. The company is among the world leaders in the field of data management and analysis, its integration, transformation and visualization, as well as consulting services in the construction and implementation of specific cloud architectures and solutions in Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and Microsoft Azure. Specialists in the company are distributed in directions according to key competencies, while at the same time they can perform different roles according to the requirements of the clients and the projects they work on. The company is one of the few where one can learn and upgrade in all the technology aspects of data in one place, changing roles and moving through top class projects, each an opportunity contributing to the career development and knowledge enrichment of any consultant. <end><end>Ognyan Guglev is the head of the academy at Adastra. He is a coach for the development of leadership skills and competencies in the IT sector. Ognyan has 10 years of experience as an IT consultant and architect of infrastructure solutions. Its purpose is to help the development of people and their competencies.<end>Milena Miteva is an ETL Developer and is part of the company's team in the city of Varna. She has over 3 years of experience in the field of data, some of her primary responsibilities include transforming, processing, loading and migrating data with various tools and technologies. Some of the main technologies, languages ​​and tools with which he has experience are: Informatica PowerCenter, SQL, Python, SAP, IDMC. Milena actively participates in the activities of the Adastra Academy, having led various lectures and exercises focused on SQL fundamentals, Data warehouse and Python.<end>Iskren Yordanov is a QA Specialist and has been part of the company's team in the city of Varna for more than 9 years. Iskren has many years of experience in testing business solutions, developing test plans, profiling data for validation, analyzing test results, preparing documentation, coordinating processes, etc. He has worked with the following tools and technologies: Aginity Workbench, Netezza, DBVisualizer Pro Hadoop, HP ALM, SAP Power Designer, SQL, Jira, Unix, etc. What motivates Iskren for so many years to develop in the field of data and in particular the QA field is that data processing is like a puzzle and everyone strives for the common goal of getting the desired and correct result. <end>Milena and Iskren's lectures were not only informative but also inspiring. They showed the students the real applications of the knowledge they acquire in school and the opportunities that open up to them in the world of technology. Students appreciated the lecturers' openness and willingness to share their experiences and answer questions.<end> <end>
At the regional round of the Geography and Economics Olympiad held in February 2023, Nadezhda Ivanova from class X performed excellently and qualified for the national round, which will be held in April in the city of Sofia. She is one of the two ranked students, representatives of the Burgas region in the national competition.  <end>Eight students from PGKPI participated in the municipal round in February, of which six continued to the district level. We are proud of the results achieved by our tenth graders - Iva Raykova, who was only two points short of qualifying for the national level, Stiliyan Mishev, Stilian Mikov, Mariela Dimova and Bilyana Badalova.   <end> <end>We congratulate Nadezhda for the achieved result and wish her success in the next round! <end> <end>
Teens In AI organizes annual hackathons and competitions in different cities around the world, offering participants the opportunity to work in teams and create innovative projects using artificial intelligence. Participants have the opportunity to meet industry professionals, receive advice and guidance from experienced mentors and present their ideas to an expert jury. Teens In AI competitions are an opportunity for young people to develop their skills in programming, problem solving and innovative thinking, while engaging in solving real social problems through the use of technology.<end>Teens In AI is an initiative of Acorn Aspirations and was launched during the UN World Council on Artificial Intelligence in May 2018. It exists to promote diversity and inclusion in artificial intelligence. We aim to democratize AI and create opportunities for underrepresented groups through a combination of expert mentorship, lectures, workshops, hackathons, bootcamps and accelerators, company tours and dating opportunities that empower young people between the ages of 12 and 18 years of early exposure to AI for social good.<end>Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation participated in the competitions in 2020 and 2021 and this year for the first time participated as a local representative of Techathona Tens in AI. 79 countries participated in the competition.<end>42 students took part in the local competition, and 15 business mentors - Scale Focus, TehnoLogica, SwartzIT - partnered us for the competition. Three BSU universities, Asen Zlatarov University, SU "St. Klivent Ohridski" and an expert from SwartzIT.
The topics of the techathon were related to gender equality, sustainable education and health care.<end>Ranked in the first three places are the teams:
Jacqueline Yankova, Stoyan Hristov, Dimaya Noveva, Stiliyan Dimitrov
Teodor Tanev, Todor Atanasov, Alex Kazakov, Boyan, Maria Koleva
Ivan Dochev, Atanas Apostolov, Ivaylo Bachvarov, Ivan Stoychev, Ivan Delchilov<end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end> <end>

PGKPI Burgas reserves the number, type of classes and admission rules for the next academic year.<end>For the academic year 2024/2025, Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovations - Burgas will accept students in the following majors:<end>All four classes have a second foreign language - German (from class IX).<end>Students from all over the country who have completed the seventh grade in the academic year 2023/2024 can apply to the Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation - Burgas.<end>The ball is formed by the sum of:<end>Maximum score 500 points!<end>SCALE for converting grades from the primary education certificate after grade VII into points:<end>Can the application documents be submitted electronically?
Yes, this will be done at https://priem.mon.bg or https://7klas.mon.bg.
Login to the system will be done with Login. No. and access code written on the student's official notes received from the school. An electronic application will be able to be submitted from the home computer.<end>Important data for secondary school applicants:<end>You can find a schedule with dates and activities for applying after the 7th grade on the website of RUO-Burgas<end>https://ruoburgas.bg/-v-.html and in the Order of the Minister of Education and Science<end>An open day will be announced in May or June, during which students and parents will have the opportunity to visit PGKPI and learn about the organization of the educational process.<end>
68 projects of students from the fifth to the twelfth grade took part in the District Round of the Information Technology Olympiad. The students' technological research in the projects focused on interactivity and multimedia stand out with undeniable achievements. These projects cover different categories united by the drive for innovation and improvements in modern technology.<end>Interactive Projects:
Projects focused on interactivity play a key role in creating educational, entertainment and functional solutions. From learning applications that encourage active participation to innovative control systems, interactive projects are changing the way we interact with technology.<end>Multimedia Projects:
Multimedia projects are deployed in a variety of fields, from the arts and entertainment to education and business. They provide a rich visual and audio experience, enriching our digital world. From online exhibitions to virtual trainings, multimedia projects innovate visual communication and information processing.<end>Software Applications:
In the field of software applications, designing smart and functional applications is essential. From mobile applications that make everyday life easier to complex software systems that support business processes and environmental protection, these projects create value and efficiency.<end>Big Data:
Big data projects build intelligent and analytical solutions. Processing and analyzing huge data is essential for making informed decisions in every field, from business to science. The implementation of machine learning and artificial intelligence elements, predicting the number of viral diseases on the basis of real data, impressed the committee.<end>Modern Visual Information Systems:
Visual information systems provide an intuitive way to perceive complex information. Projects in this category combine aesthetics and functionality, enriching the presentation and understanding of data and concepts.<end>Distributed Applications:
Distributed applications focus on collaboration and data exchange between different points. They play a key role in facilitating communication and working in distributed teams, improving the efficiency and scope of projects. Access to virtual machine management systems and whistleblowing systems have proven that young people are thinking in the direction of integrating technology into real life.<end>Each of these projects represents an irresistible contribution to the technological development in the field of interactivity and multimedia, laying the foundations for future innovations and technological changes. Well done girls and boys!<end>All projects with results above 70 points are offered for consideration by the National Commission. 15 projects per category from all over the country are admitted to the National Round.<end>Results regional round Burgas 2024<end>
Students from the Vocational High School for Computer Programming and Innovation (PGKPI) demonstrated their technical skills by successfully implementing the BgGPT model developed by INSAIT for internal use in the high school. This groundbreaking achievement not only improves the learning experience of students, but also opens up new possibilities for integrating artificial intelligence (AI) into the educational environment.<end>BgGPT is a large language model that uses deep learning to understand and generate human text. Developed by INSAIT, the leading center for AI research in Eastern Europe, this revolutionary solution has the potential to change the way we interact with technology.<end>Stoyan Ivanov and Martin Martinov of PGKPI worked tirelessly to adapt this remarkable tool for the educational needs of the high school. They were able to seamlessly integrate BgGPT into their existing infrastructure, allowing teachers and students to take full advantage of its features. The model now effectively answers a variety of queries related to specific topics taught at the school, including programming, network protocols and algorithms. High school students added additional capabilities to the model, such as the option to search the web for information, which improved the accuracy of answers. Here are some sample questions the model answered:<end>“`<end>Question:<end>Tell us about PGKPI Burgas<end>Answer:<end>The Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation (PGKPI) in the city of Burgas is a specialized state high school that offers a five-year course of study after completing seventh grade. The school aims to prepare highly qualified specialists in the field of information technology, focusing on programming, artificial intelligence, cyber security and other related fields.<end>The PGKPI curriculum includes intensive study of programming languages ​​such as Java, Python, C++, etc., as well as fundamentals of algorithms, data structures, databases, and web development. Students also gain skills in cloud computing, robotics and machine learning. In addition to technical subjects, the school also provides a solid foundation in mathematical disciplines, which are important for understanding the principles behind modern technological advances.<end>Question:<end>What are the main concepts of OOP?<end>Answer:<end>In object-oriented programming, classes represent patterns or templates for creating objects, while objects are instances of a class.<end>Inheritance: This allows the creation of new classes from existing ones by inheriting their properties and methods.<end>Polymorphism: This feature allows you to define multiple methods with the same name in different classes, allowing flexibility in handling different cases.<end>Encapsulation: This is the process of hiding the internal details of an object (data and methods) behind an interface, exposing only the necessary information to the outside world.<end>Abstraction: Enables focusing on the key features and behaviors of a problem by abstracting away the unimportant details.<end>“`<end>
Hackathon Coding Kids Burgas 24 is organized by the Municipality of Burgas, EPAM Bulgaria and the Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation. The purpose of the hackathon is to inspire young participants to develop their technological skills, working in teams of 3 to 4 competitors under the mentorship of students from the Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation. The technology used during the competition will be Scratch (https://scratch.mit.edu/) - an intuitive programming language that allows children to easily create their own projects. Hackathon Coding Kids Burgas 24 aims to bring together small technology creators who, in a few hours, can create a product together that they can present and protect.<end>All children from 8 to 14 years of age have the right to participate. The competition will be held on March 9, 2024 from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. in the Regional Library in the city of Burgas.<end>Details of the event program and the forms you need to submit will be sent to your email after registration.<end>Organizer contact: e-mail: [email protected]<end>
Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski" is the first Bulgarian higher education institution. Its history, dating back to 1888, is the embodiment and continuation of the centuries-old cultural and educational tradition of the Bulgarian people.<end>Since 1902, the celebration of the patron saint of the university, St. Kliment Ohridski, has been established. In the Regulations of the University from 1905, for the first time, the text was written that November 25, the day of St. Kliment Ohridski, became the patron saint of the University. Since 1916, as a result of the official adoption of the Gregorian calendar in Bulgaria, the University's annual holiday began to be celebrated on December 8. Thus, over the years, the oldest and most prestigious higher education institution in Bulgaria created and confirmed December 8 as a symbolic date of the university celebration. From the beginning of 1935, Sofia University officially began to bear the name of its patron.<end>Gradually, Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski" became one of the authoritative scientific centers of the Balkans, a fully developed European-type university. Today, Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski" is the largest and most prestigious educational and research center in the country. It encompasses 16 faculties, each of which offers a diverse range of majors.<end>The structure of Sofia University includes the following main units: Faculty of Slavic Philology, Faculty of Classical and Modern Philology, Faculty of History, Faculty of Philosophy, Faculty of Law, Faculty of Journalism and Mass Communication, Faculty of Pedagogy, Faculty of Educational Sciences and Arts , Faculty of Geology and Geography, Faculty of Physics, Faculty of Mathematics and Informatics, Faculty of Chemistry and Pharmacy, Faculty of Biology, Faculty of Economics, Faculty of Theology, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Information and Teacher Development, Department of Language Training and Department of Sports.<end>Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski" is an educational and scientific institution that has chosen the path of development of a research university. The principle has been adopted that the high level of scientific research activity is a mandatory step in the implementation of effective interaction between the educational process, science, technological development and innovation policy. At the Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski" employs a large number of the best Bulgarian specialists in all fields of natural, mathematical and humanitarian sciences. The research activity of the professors from Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski" is an integral part of the learning process with the students.<end>As an independent section of the global strategy of the University is the development of international activity. Through it, scientific research is stimulated to a significant extent and the educational process is supported and improved. The university has contractual relations with over 80 universities from different countries, hundreds of joint participation in international projects of various types and multilateral contacts with scientists from all over the world.<end>***<end>By decision of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on January 4, 2023, a branch of Alma Mater was opened in the city of Burgas. After less than a year with protocol No. 13 of 27.09.2023 of the Academic Council of SU "St. Kliment Ohridski" and after approval by the Minister of Education and Science from 22.11.2023, the Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation - Burgas acquires the status of an associated school of the University. With this, the Burgas high school becomes the first school outside Sofia and the third in the country associated with the University of Sofia after the National High School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics and the National High School for Ancient Languages ​​and Cultures.<end>Assoc. Dr. Boryana Pelova, director of the MP "Artificial Intelligence for Business and Finance" and an established researcher (R3) in significant research projects in the field of applications of artificial intelligence in business and finance, is the coordinator of the activities between PGKPI - Burgas and the Faculty of Economics of the University of St. Kliment Ohridski". A central axis of cooperation between the two educational units is the provision of high expertise in the field of artificial intelligence, through which school-university-business synergy can be achieved. The first steps in this direction are already a fact. The team of the Faculty of Economics in cooperation with the branch of the University of Burgas in the city of Burgas provides both academic support in the educational process of the scholars from the High School and support in the career guidance of young talents.<end>At a press conference held on 19.12.2023 in Burgas, Mrs. Dimitrina Todorva, director of PGKPI - Burgas, shared: "These are career paths that will make our students successful people and give them help choose a career related to technology. Two years ago, our high school opened two new majors for the country - robot programming and artificial intelligence. For this we need support from the academic community. Our city already has a branch of Sofia University, and now we are building on this level by cooperating with all its faculties for the development of children."<end>Initiatives of the professors from the university are a series of lectures on mathematics, which will take place in the Regional Library of Burgas, and practices related to the implementation of projects related to artificial intelligence, which will take place in the high school.<end> <end>

In the world of creative design, the topic of climate change is becoming the focal point of many competitions and initiatives. One such competition that is attracting attention is aimed at the development of design projects under the title "World Climate: Think Globally, Act Locally". The aim is to highlight the importance of global action and local initiatives in the fight against climate change.<end>The theme "Think Globally, Act Locally" focuses on the idea that while climate change is a global problem, solutions often start at the local level. This approach allows competition participants to consider how their design ideas can contribute to the development of sustainability in their communities.<end>Contestants are encouraged to use a variety of creative approaches. These may include:<end>The competition highlights the importance of creativity in developing solutions to climate problems. Designers are challenged to think outside of traditional methods and create original and inspiring designs.<end>
The team presented their "Payout Pacer" project, which turns daily steps into real money, stimulating physical activity and financial reward. The app allows users to track their progress, complete challenges and earn financial rewards. It includes a financial dashboard, statistics and the ability to connect with a motivating community.<end>Participants had 36 hours to develop a business-oriented project, and could choose between two topics: "Resolution" - oriented towards personal development and health, and a second, more general topic, providing complete freedom for ideas.<end>The jury, consisting of specialists in the field of software engineering, evaluated the projects according to criteria such as creativity, practicality, presentation, technical complexity and design. Prizes included a certificate of achievement, cash prizes, AWS credits, t-shirts, stickers and other exciting offers.<end>This hackathon not only showcases the ability of young minds to create innovative solutions, but also highlights the importance of technology in our daily lives. The Spectra team and their Payout Pacer project show how technology can be used to improve the health and well-being of individuals while encouraging their financial motivation.<end>
On the eve of the most magical time of the year, students and teachers from Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation (PGKPI) in Burgas gathered together to celebrate the Christmas holidays with a series of creative workshops and festive events inspired by German Christmas traditions.<end>In the spirit of Christmas giving and community, students organized workshops to make handmade ornaments, Christmas cards and gifts. These workshops not only developed the creative skills of the participants, but also helped to build a warm and cozy atmosphere in the school, imbued with the spirit of the holiday. The students of the twelfth grade turned out to be amazing confectioners, who charmed everyone.<end>The traditional Christmas carols were organized by Mrs. Violeta Ivanova and we thank the carolers for the wonderful names before the Christmas days!<end>A real highlight of the holiday celebrations was the introduction of the German Christmas. Students learned about the cultural features of German Christmas traditions, including the decoration of Christmas markets, typical Christmas treats such as lebkuchen and stollen, and learning popular Christmas carols in German. The sharing of goodies and festive mood was organized by Mrs. Apostolova and Mrs. Ivanova.<end>The celebrations culminated with the nomination ceremony for the best students of PGKPI. In recognition of their hard work and excellence during the year, the school management and teaching staff presented awards to the students who performed. The moment was a true celebration of academic success and personal development, with the nominated students being honored in the presence of their classmates, teachers and families.<end>The sports football meeting heated up passions, but also created an incredible spirit of cooperation and a good mood for motivation and success.  We thank Martin Dobrev, Deniz Redzebov, Niki Shtipkov and Georgi Karagogov, who supported the team of teachers. Everyone is a winner in this sports meeting filled with friendship and good intentions.<end><end>The closing moments of the celebration were filled with joy and laughter, as students and teachers exchanged wishes for health, happiness and success. The events held at PGKPI reflect the idea of ​​community and sharing that are at the heart of the Christmas tradition and contribute to creating unforgettable memories and strengthening school spirit.<end>

In the framework of the last project activity, implemented by students of the ninth grade of the Vocational High School for Computer Programming and Innovation (PGKPI), young talents showed their skills by creating impressive projects dedicated to the green idea and environmental protection.<end>Students demonstrated incredible creativity and technical expertise using web technologies such as HTML, CSS and JavaScript. These skills allowed them to create interactive and visually appealing projects that not only attract attention, but also highlight the importance of environmental issues.<end>The participation of older students in the role of mentors was particularly impressive. Their support and guidance provided the ninth graders with valuable advice and guidance that greatly contributed to the success of their projects. The interaction between students from different classes created a dynamic and collaborative environment that not only helped to realize the projects, but also encouraged the exchange of knowledge and experience between different ages.<end>This approach demonstrates the importance of collaboration and mentorship in the educational process, especially in the areas of technology and sustainability. PGKPI students proved that with joint efforts and proper guidance they can create projects that not only demonstrate technical skills but also send a powerful message about environmental protection and the need for sustainable development.<end><end>


<end>
On the occasion of Black Sea Day, which is celebrated every year on October 31, Gabriel Dimitrov, a student at PGKPI, decided to share his emotions and impressions that his beloved sea creates for him. Inspired by the idea of ​​trying to preserve this fragile ecosystem, he wrote a poem that he dedicated to the sea. The appeal of the students of the tenth grades is to value highly our geographical position, with the access we have to this warm sea. Let's not forget that we all have a responsibility to protect nature and water bodies as part of it. With the adoption of the Strategic Plan for the Black Sea, the countries that adopt it commit themselves to protect and restore this unique natural system. "The most serious threats to the Black Sea ecosystem are pollution, overfishing and unsustainable coastal development," the document says. Each of us can contribute to its preservation by not leaving our trash on the beach, picking up other people's, using less plastic and plastic packaging, not pouring grease and chemicals down the drain, saving drinking water, etc. Let's keep our sea clean for future generations!<end>The sea in my heart<end>Our beloved Black Sea, you won me over<end>even if a person only sees you once,<end>as long as you stay forever in his dreams brave,<end>and the noise of your waves resounds in his soul with an echo.<end>Even your cold waters in October,<end>beckon me quietly to come to you<end>standing listening to what you are saying<end>forgetting everything, even the bad weather.<end>Staring at you, I can't stop admiring<end>a sudden urge arises to sail away,<end>immensity blue, frozen in the heart,<end>I feel how it keeps pulling me towards the sea.<end>For thousands of years you have been here welcoming us,<end>you pray for our peace fervently,<end>you inspire us with tenderness and love,<end>you show us the way and answer our every call.<end>Every time I glimpse your waters blue,<end>my heart beats fast, my breath hitches<end>my worries die, I forget about all the evils,<end>every hope is revived, my strength is restored,<end>the wounds become a memory, warm feelings surround me.<end> <end>Gabriel Dimitrov,<end>a student of class XV<end> <end>
On October 20 in the regional library "P. K. Yavorov", the city of Burgas, the presentation of "The Antarctic Hitchhiker" - the new biographical book of Prof. Hristo Pimpirev to the Burgas audience took place. The event was also attended by students from PGKPI, who have a lot to learn from the polar explorer. Prof. Hristo Pimpirev is a scientist and lecturer in geology at the Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski". He is the chairman of the Bulgarian Antarctic Institute, led over 30 Bulgarian Antarctic expeditions and is included in the world ranking of the hundred most prominent polar explorers on Earth. The peak of Fr. Alexander, a glacier and a coastline in Antarctica, and those present in the hall also learned that there is a peninsula on the Ice Continent that glorifies the name of our city. The presentation was also attended by the journalist and co-author of the book Iglika Trifonova, as well as the commander of the Bulgarian research ship "St. St. Cyril and Methodius" Captain Nikolay Danailov. They all talked about life in the Bulgarian base on Livingstone Island, the research and discoveries that are carried out there, how important they are for science and about all the positive moments of their stay on the island. Professor Pimpirev shared how his dream of Antarctica was born, the hardships he went through, the difficulties he encountered with the transport there using the hitchhiking method, and how this dream of his became a state policy. The professor addressed the young people in the hall and encouraged them to dream and make their dreams come true. In addition, the famous researcher raised the spirits of those present with his story about small and poor Bulgaria, but one of the few countries in the world that has its own polar base, unlike many other big and strong countries. And some of our bravest students expressed their desire to one day also be part of the Bulgarian polar expedition.<end><end>
Students from the Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation visited ISTA 2023. On October 12, the event took place for another year, bringing together inspiring individuals with a passion for development, quality and innovative practices in software development. They presented the latest trends in information technology to hundreds of professionals from across the country. ISTA is an annual international conference dedicated to the latest trends and best practices in software development, test automation and CI/CD/DevOps.<end>Some of the key speakers of the ISTA Conference 2023 are already known. Among them are Donna Sarkar, CTO at Microsoft, Radu Georgescu, Chairman of the SeedBlink Advisory Board, Jason Beres, SVP Developer Tools at Infragistics, Momchil Kyurkchiev, Co-Founder of Leanplum (a CleverTap company), Victor Boten, Chief Technology Officer director and co-founder of Iris AI, Viktoria Viktorova, co-founder and CEO of MindFit Bulgaria and Antonia Atanasova, Front-End Team Lead at Devexperts.<end> <end>
A professional high school for computer programming and innovation has started training students in German to achieve an international certificate of the Goethe-Institut.
This exceptional opportunity will be offered to students as well as to all those who wish from
Burgas to be certified by the Goethe-Institut - Sofia from level A1 to level C1.
The exams will be held on the territory of PGKPI - Burgas at the end of June. The exact date will be
announced by the end of March 2024.
Those wishing to take the Goethe-Institut certificate exam for any of the announced levels must
to express their desire by 15.03.2024 at [email protected]<end><end>

The Municipality of Burgas and the EPAM company are initiators of training for students from 6 to 12 years old during the last two spring and summer vacations. The trainings included Scratch and Java Script programming, the lecturers are students of the Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovation.<end>EPAM Bulgaria received the Aibest award for Best Partnership between Business and Education for 2023. The award-winning project is Coding Kids Burgas, where students from our high school teach technology to other Burgas students. This is a pilot project for Bulgaria, which EPAM implements together with the Municipality of Burgas.<end>Congratulations to everyone involved in this project! We thank EPAM and the Municipality of Burgas for the opportunity to actively participate in it!<end><end><end> <end>
<end>For another year on 09.05 in Bulgaria, we celebrate Europe Day, and as part of the initiative of the European Parliament, it could not remain unreflected by the team of ambassadors of the school. In "Class Hour", 8th grade students took part in a special thematic "Treasure hunt" game, in which the most agile and resourceful were able to solve riddles and solve practical cases.<end>The event started with a short talk about the history of the EU, the situation in Bulgaria during the transition, our rights and obligations as EU citizens and the commitment of young people in knowing and exercising them.<end>The educational game consisted of working with samples of the texts of the "Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU", which the students had to analyze and group according to their belonging to a certain part of the charter: dignity, freedoms, equality, solidarity, citizenship, justice.<end>Although intricate, the puzzles did not prove an insurmountable challenge for would-be programmers. They managed to solve all the cases, keeping their enthusiasm and competitive spirit even in the bad metrological conditions.<end>After the end of the "hunt", the winning team received a design certificate created by the EP Junior Ambassadors team, and the good mood of the participants is an indicator that young people are learning with pleasure and expanding their worldview, interacting with their peers.<end><end>
Over 85+ teams with over 140+ participants from 16 cities of Bulgaria, as well as over 30+ mentors and team leaders from the following cities took part in this year's edition of Robotics Days at TU-Sofia: Burgas, Varna, Gabrovo, Gorna Oryahovitsa , Dimitrovgrad, Dobrich, Kyustendil, Lovech, Pernik, Pleven, Plovdiv, Panagyurishte, Ruse, Sofia, Shumen and Yambol.  The whole event is realized with the support of: Aurubis Bulgaria, UNIBERG, Mondelez International, Liebherr, Centillion, Bosch Engineering Center Sofia, FESTO, BALKANTEL, Coherent Solutions, Ekhnaton Bulgaria and ErElement.<end>
His love for children and German began when he worked as an animator in a tour operator company. "After that, I focused on pedagogy and decided to develop professionally in this field," says Magdalena Ivanova. In parallel with his studies, he first worked in several kindergartens, and then as a primary teacher. She also taught in several private schools.
"It took me a long time to get up the courage to start doing what brings me the most satisfaction - teaching German," says Magdalena. For her, it has an incredible lexical wealth, a logical and structured grammar and a beautiful melody, which gives immense freedom of expression. Her favorite quote is by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and says that he who does not know foreign languages ​​does not know his own.<end>"This is not a cliché. Learning a foreign language really helps you to get a detailed insight into the essence and logic of your mother tongue. When you know more than one language, it's quite normal to start comparing. The human brain is designed in such a way that it first detects differences, only then similarities. Languages ​​broaden one's worldview and are never enough. Each one is a plus," argued my interlocutor. She herself speaks German and English perfectly. He also has knowledge of Russian and Spanish. He says that switching from one language to another is like going from topic to topic in everyday conversation. It's all a matter of training and practice. Learning languages ​​develops the memory and makes it more useful with each successive one. “I often tell my students that you never know what professional environment they will end up in. It is true that the English language is universal and with it they can communicate with anyone anywhere in the world, but a good knowledge of German can open more doors for them," says the young teacher.<end>This is only part of Magdalena Ivanova's interview with Dilyana Kovacheva from the newspaper "Az Buki"<end>
Certiport (www.certiport.com), a Pearson VUE business, a leading provider of testing for job applications and academic institutions worldwide, admits only the top national finalists to the Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS) and ADOBE Global Finals. The most serious competition of high school students in the field of technological skills in these two directions gathered in the city of Sofia, and as a result of a contested battle in terms of result and time to achieve it, three students from the Professional High School in Computer Programming and Innovation qualified.<end>Ranked are:<end>
The first groups trained under the CODINGKIDS program finished their training today. Within a week, the trainers demonstrated to the students of the city what possibilities there are for Scratch and javaScript programming, and there was no shortage of interested parties. Nearly 300 students enrolled in the courses, the training locations were Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovations, OU "A.G. Kojakafaliyata" and Congress Center in Port Infrastructure Burgas. In five consecutive days, the trainers, who are high school students, managed to introduce the young students to the basic principles of programming in a fun way. The next series of training courses will be in July and registration will be launched in June. We hope that all interested parties will be able to join the groups.<end>The companies supporting the training process of the student mentors are EPAM - Bulgaria and IT Talents, they prepared and trained students from the tenth and eleventh grades of the Vocational High School in computer programming and innovation, who brilliantly coped with the training of the first few young children. The initiative will continue in July. Testimonials from students who participated in this process are:<end>Stoyan Ivanov – 11th grade<end>"During spring break, I had the honor of being part of the Coding Kids Burgas program and teaching JavaScript to wonderful kids for the first time. It was an amazing experience for me and for them. The children were very inquisitive, creative and enthusiastic. They learned how to create simple programs and experienced the wonder of programming. I saw how they enjoyed every success and how they supported each other. I was impressed with their progress and how quickly they learned new things. I am very proud of them. Teaching helped me understand programming better and improve my skills. Sharing my knowledge has brought me much joy and satisfaction. I would be happy to continue this program in the future!”<end>Valeri Ivanov – 10th grade<end>"During spring break, I was given the opportunity to step into the role of a Coding Kids Burgas teacher and teach JavaScript to children from the earliest stages of the learning process. I think that out of all my experiences like this, this worked out the best. The kids were very interested in the material we covered as well as what a programmer actually does. The thing that impressed me the most, however, was their dedication to helping each other, creating an open and welcoming environment. I think that with this program an opportunity was given not only to the children to learn something new, but also to the teachers - how to explain something complicated so that it is understandable even to the youngest."<end>The official presentation of the awards will be held on May 10 at 4:30 p.m. in the Convention Center of the Maritime Station - Burgas.<end>
On April 12, 1961, at 9:07 a.m. Moscow time, the Vostok spacecraft took off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome with pilot-cosmonaut Yuri Alekseevich Gagarin. The ship performs one
circle the Earth in 108 minutes. After 2 days, Gagarin was solemnly welcomed on Red Square in Moscow in front of thousands of people who came to see him.
And we, the Bulgarians, have given cosmonauts to the world - Georgi Ivanov and Alexander Alexandrov.<end>On the International Day of Aviation and Cosmonautics, free entry will be provided for visitors to the Burgas Aviation Museum. The successor to the Aviation Museum opened its doors in 1998. The Burgas Aviation Museum was established by a decision of the Burgas Municipal Council and opened its doors with a renewed external and internal interactive exhibition on 29.06.2017.<end>” Nothing is impossible, you just need to fly. "<end><end>
HackAUBG 4.0 is the next edition of the traditional annual hackathon, organized by the high technology and entrepreneurship student club at the American University in Bulgaria (AUB) - The Hub AUBG. The club consists of a group of students with a great desire to relive the excitement of organizing a large and important IT event. Teams of 3 to 6 participants will have the opportunity to compete for the top spots and the prize fund of BGN 6,000. They will compete by designing and defending their software and/or hardware projects, and the topic will be announced at the beginning of the event itself on 1- you April. HackAUBG 4.0 aims to give many innovative ideas a chance to become reality. The event brought together like-minded people and friends, creating many new acquaintances during the event itself.<end>The team took first place Stoyan Ivanov, Kalin Chervenkov, Boris Savov and Atanas Pozharlshev together with partners Kiril Uzunov and Daniel Todorov showed that a team of students can achieve more. Congratulations on the award and we wish you continued success!<end><end>
The national round of the IT Olympiad for the 2022/2023 academic year with the official organizer of the MES this academic year will be held on April 21, 22 and 23 in the city of Shumen.<end>The Olympiad is held in three rounds - school, regional and final. The National Jury approves all those proposed for ranking for the final round. The final round includes two stages – test and project defense. The overall grade is obtained after summing the grades from the two stages. The evaluations are made by the National Jury, which prepares the final ranking.<end>We are happy to share that we have 4 ranked projects for the national round of the Olympiad:<end>Good luck to the finalists!<end>
Our good friends from the Vocational School of Computer Networks in Metz, France visited us in March. During the visit, the French students attended classes in English, mathematics and programming. In teams with high school students, they developed projects that involved creating smart solutions with Arduino-based microelectronics.<end>As part of the visit in the last week, they were joined by 13 French students and two teachers who visited OU"A.G. Kojakafalia", the museums in the city and historical Nessebar.<end>In the next period of the program, high school students will have the opportunity to visit the school in France, which is one of the CISCO academies in the region where the city of Metz is located.<end>
From 20 to 24.03.2023 in the city of Almada, Portugal, the last meeting of the Go Green with Smart IT project was held, in which representatives of partner schools from France, Spain, Finland, Bulgaria and Portugal participated. On Monday, 20.03, an organizational meeting was held at the host school, where the program for the working week was presented. We were also introduced to the introduction of digital education in Portugal, as well as interesting facts about the country's history. The hosts introduced us to the school, showed us the classrooms and laboratories that are used in the educational process in electronics, mechanics and programming. The students were divided into teams and assigned tasks to complete. In the afternoon, a guided walking tour was organized in Almada, which included the most significant sights of the city.<end>Tuesday, 21.03, was a day for practical activities. Before that, the students were introduced to the features of 3D printing – the types of printers, their device, the materials they can use, the advantages of 3D printing. Of particular interest to the students was the work process itself, where they themselves created the conceptual projects on a computer, and then the objects themselves. Thursday, 23.03, was also set aside for team work. This time they had to make an automatic trash can that opens via a sensor. Each team member had a specific task – read the diagram, draw it, write code, document the entire process and create a presentation about the Almada experience. All projects were successful, and the presentations were impressive. In the evening, the hosts gave a farewell dinner, followed by a ceremony to present certificates to all participants and a party.<end>
<end>The company "Tehnologika" EAD is part of the team that develops and works with the Vocational High School for Computer Programming and Innovation - Burgas since its launch in 2018. The role of its employees from the office and in Burgas is essential, because all technological activities related to projects, practices and lectures are always supported by them. In the current 2022/2023 school year, as mentors for the "Student Practices - 2" project, they support the process of creating 12 projects with 11th grade students. We expect the company's technology team to be part of the committees during the State Matriculation Examination. The future plans of the high school are related to this company in the direction of building high-tech laboratories for 3D design and projecting, as well as the development of new specialties in the field of computer security.<end>We thank the entire team of "Tehnologika" EAD for their support and above all, for always being there for us!<end>
<end>ScaleFocus provides specialized software solutions based on existing products of global vendors such as IBM, Amazon, Oracle, Microsoft, TIBCO, Appian, etc. The expertise of the company's specialists is concentrated in the telecommunications, banking, financial, insurance, healthcare, logistics, government and education sectors.<end>Atanasia Vasileva has been working as a software engineer at ScaleFocus for a year. What does she think about participating in the Student Internships - 2 project, in which she is involved as a student mentor: "Student Internships is a great initiative created with the aim of enriching children's programming knowledge, as well as teaching them to be persistent in their pursuit of your goals. I wholeheartedly support the practice of more similar activities in Bulgarian schools."<end>On the collaboration between business and school and how it prepares students for realization after their graduation: "I think that the joint work between the IT industry and schools is a solid foundation that would certainly support the career start of the future IT personnel." Students are given the opportunity to gain knowledge and practical advice from experienced specialists, which will certainly be useful in their future realization in the industry. The focus of the student projects they develop in Activity 1 is centered on learning good practices and developing students' logical thinking. I can say that one never fully learns one's lesson until one has to face a situation in which one is obliged to put one's knowledge into practice. The same thing happens with children - they try new options, it doesn't work, they try again and gain experience that would certainly have a good impact on their development as future professionals. Students have a wide variety of project ideas, they don't stick to the banal educational projects like blogs, online stores, etc. They manage to think outside the box and show creativity, for which I want to congratulate them!”<end>As for whether she encountered difficulties in communicating with the students, Athanasia answers: "In the beginning, many of the students were worried about talking calmly and openly with me. Fortunately, I can now say that over time I was able to find the right approach to them, predispose them and even build relationships. As the popular phrase goes, we manage to combine the useful with the pleasant.'<end>
Representatives of PPMG "Acad. Nikola Obreshkov" visited the high school in connection with the partnership with the team of junior ambassadors of the EP from PGKPI<end>After the team of junior ambassadors visited PPMG last month, it was time for our partners to come visit as well.<end>This happened on 17.03.2023, when a team selected by the teaching staff of PPMG came to visit the school with the aim of:<end>"Bringing together schools and conducting activities to acquaint the aforementioned team with EU values ​​and policies, as well as innovations in the world of technology"<end>The event officially started at 9:00. The first activity, named "Euro Associations", aimed to test and at the same time enrich the knowledge of the participants about the culture of the European countries, as well as the characteristic habits of the population in them.<end>The whole game went extremely well, with the representatives of both schools demonstrating their knowledge of the countries they had drawn. At the end of the allotted time for the game, all the countries were guessed and the goal of the game fulfilled...<end>After a short break, it was time for the second game, called "The Euro Through My Eyes". Its purpose was to provoke the creativity of the participants, who had to depict their design for the Bulgarian euro. In addition to the design itself, they had to explain the symbolism of the graphic elements they used.<end>The most important activity of the initiative was a debate on the topic "The introduction of artificial intelligence in the state administration and in the spheres of mass employment is dangerous!".  This topic provoked heated discussions "FOR" and "AGAINST", with both sides giving very strong arguments. The case was used by the representatives of PGKPI to explain some features of artificial intelligence and its future introduction.<end>At the end of the debate, the arguments of the opposition gained more weight and hence they were declared winners of the debate, receiving special branded prizes from the school.<end>The idea of ​​the debate, namely to inform young people about the progress in technology and what the future will offer us, was successfully implemented.<end>The program ended and the meeting was officially closed at 11:50.<end>Like their previous meeting, this one seemed to be over in seconds…again it was time to say goodbye, and both the previous time and this one, the participants wished each other to meet soon for new joint activities.<end> <end>Author: Mr. Sabev Radev IX A<end><end>

"Like technology, German requires enthusiasm, flair and persistence"<end>The German language club for beginners at PGKPI celebrated its first public activity, in which the future programmers showed that they have a flair not only for programming, but also a talent for learning foreign languages. In the company of their peers and teachers, the aspiring German learners demonstrated enviable presentation and language skills, debunking the myth that German is difficult. The students freely used vocabulary and means of expression from the studied thematic areas - family, hobby, free time, professions and everyday life and delighted with visual effects in their author's presentations.<end>During the entire first term, those wishing to study the German language intensively attended extracurricular classes under the "Interest Activities" program, funded by the Ministry of Education and Culture. The preparation lasts until the end of the academic year 2022/2023 and covers the knowledge and skills corresponding to level A1 according to the European Language Framework. Methodologically, there is a great deal of emphasis on the communicative goal, which we realize through dialogues and various communicative situations in class. If there is interest and next year, PGKPI plans to form a new group, respectively for level A2, in which students from the 9th and 10th grades who wish to continue with the in-depth study of the language will find a place.<end>Knowing German as a second foreign language gives an indisputable advantage to young people who decide to develop their technological potential in European Union countries and beyond. Excellent conditions for this are provided by a number of universities in Germany, such as Technische Universität München, Humboldt-Universität, Heidelberg Universität, etc. And in the coming year, PGKPI will continue to support young people striving to grow in the world of technology with the German language.<end>
MUSALA SOFT is a company that is part of the School Board of the Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation. For four years, the company participated in the processes of conducting production and student practices. During this school year, the company, through its specialists Ivaylo Ivanov and Eduardo Rodriguez, is leading the process of creating the first professional applications by high school students. The projects are on topics consulted with the managers of the practice, high school teachers and mentors who are from the company.<end>Ivaylo Ivanov is from Musala Soft and thinks that the idea of ​​practices is very good. The practice gives the students a real idea of ​​what to expect from work in the future. Unfortunately, some of them had ideas for much more complex projects, which, given their knowledge and the time we had, we had to simplify. This will give them the opportunity, however, for a subsequent upgrade. At this point - the technologies used are up-to-date and the students' projects would be useful. However, I can't help but think back to how in 11th grade I was writing a shop project using MS Access and the forms it provided to build UI. And at the university - we learned about JSPs, how to write them, etc. and how they were eventually replaced by JSF (where the UI was defined as XML). All things that are anything but current.<end>We look forward to project defenses at the end of June.<end> <end> <end>
For the second year in a row, 86 students from the 11th grade in the "Computer Science" department of the Vocational High School for Computer Programming and Innovation - Burgas and 5 of the leading IT companies in the country - Scalefocus, Musala Soft, Nemetschek, Technologica, Computermarket.bg, dealing professionally with software, joined the project BG05M2OP001-2.015 "Student Practices - 2", Activity 1, funded by the Operational Program "Science and Education for Smart Growth", co-financed by the European Union.<end>The Student Practices-2 project gives students the opportunity to get closer to a real working environment, developing their ideas and capabilities. With the help of their mentors, the students put their ideas into practice in projects that in the future could serve the society in various fields such as medicine, education, banking systems, local holiday spelling apps, online voting system and etc.<end>
The chess team of the Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovation became the champions of Burgas, and today the team won first place at the regional championship!
Our heroes are: Vanessa Kardjeva 10, David Donchev 10, Maxim Vasilev 10c, Nikolay Zhelev 8<end>Studies show that playing chess has a positive impact on numerical and verbal abilities, reduces interruptions and outside arguments, and reduces behavioral and disciplinary problems. Chess is widely known to promote a variety of mental abilities and life skills, including:<end>
Dear parents, dear students,<end>After you have opened the website of the Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovation, it means that you love technology and have a desire to develop in this direction! Get to know us, read about the project and the partners who helped make it happen in our city. To learn more about the events that will be happening at our school, follow our "News" section. You can get a lot more information about the events from our Facebook page - https://www.facebook.com/codingburgas/.<end>Academic institutions, business representatives and international experts participated in the preparation of computer science curricula. The existing economic situation and the interests of young people provoked us to create a new and non-standard school that will challenge you to develop yourself. We will prepare you to continue your studies at universities in Bulgaria and abroad, as well as to participate in the work of a real working company under the guidance of professional mentors.<end>It's an amazing opportunity to learn and develop projects with peers who have similar interests. To participate in extracurricular activities led by professionals with proven experience. To learn and develop in a digital environment created for you by the best experts, where your learning history will help you carefully plan your future. The team creating the school has worked and will work to access the best trainers and opportunities available in the world so that they are available throughout the course of study.<end>For the academic year 2023/2024, Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovations - Burgas will accept students in the following majors:<end>Students from all over the country who have completed the seventh grade in the academic year 2022/2023 can apply to the Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation - Burgas.<end>The ball is formed by the sum of:<end> <end> <end> <end>
The ENLOC company, which distinguished one of the projects under the "Energy Scouts" project and develops intelligent solutions in the real estate and energy sector, launched a training process with a team of students on production practice. During the activities, students will try to develop iPad applications that use a special augmented reality sensor.<end>Tenth grade and first-year practicum students will have the incredible opportunity to participate in instructional and mentoring processes that develop their programming skills. For this purpose, the company provided equipment that will also be used for other activities at the high school.<end>We thank the representatives of the company and especially Ilin Dobrev, who encourages us to work hard for the development of the high school in the field of technology in a wider range.<end>
Awards for the young artists of PGKPI Burgas in the EIGHTH NATIONAL COMPETITION FOR DRAWING AND LITERARY WORK
DEDICATED ON MARCH 3, 145 years since the Liberation of Bulgaria from Ottoman slavery and 60 years since the founding of the PGCE "Vasil Levski" city of Burgas, organized by:
Burgas municipality
People's community center "Far - 1946"
PGCE "Vasil Levski" city of Burgas.<end>Talented students from the Vocational High School for Computer Programming and Innovation - Burgas are ranked<end>Nikol Stoyanova - 8th grade, Alexander Sivkov - 9th grade, Emma Georgieva - 9th grade, Teodora Lozeva - 9th grade, Vanessa Kardjeva - 10th grade, Daniel Georgiev - 11th grade, Presiyan Stefanov - 11th grade, Alexandra Laleva - 12th grade with teacher Zlatka Koeva, participated in the contest with drawings and digital works and presented our high school excellently. They won 3 SPECIAL PRIZES, 3 FIRST PRIZES, 2 SECOND PRIZES. We wish them many new successes!<end>
Meeting for future partnership between the ambassadors of PGKPI and students from PMG "Acad. Nikola Obreshkov"<end> On 28.02.2023, the team of junior European ambassadors of PGKPI visited the "Acad. Nikola Obreshkov". There they gave a presentation, with which they introduced their hosts to the essence of their activity.<end>Arriving, the ambassadors and their mentors were greeted by some of the teaching staff of the high school, who accompanied them to the hall where the presentation itself and the subsequent discussion on the topic "What is it like to be a junior ambassador?"<end>Using the provided equipment and material resources, the high school team prepared the presentation, as well as the prizes intended for those who answered the questions correctly in it...<end>After everything was ready and the hall was full, it was time to move on to the main part, namely the "presentation-quiz".  Throughout the presentation, the hosts were asked questions from areas such as: "History of the EU", "Future projects of the EU", "Human rights", "Legislation" and others.<end>Many prizes were awarded as the PMG youth showed high competence in these areas. Subsequently, even after the end of the presentation itself, their interest did not subside. As a result, the team continued to ask questions, which were answered with the same enthusiasm.<end>Towards the end, this meeting turned into a discussion about the EU, some of Bulgaria's future goals were clarified, and it all ended with a friendly farewell and a promise of future joint activities.<end>Author: Mr. Sabev Radev IX A<end><end>
The unified electronic platform "Digital backpack" - in support of interactive learning in a digital environment<end>"Digital Backpack" is a unified electronic platform for educational services and content, created under the project "Education for Tomorrow", funded under the OP "Science and Education for Smart Growth". At an information meeting held on 21.02.2023, Mr. Yani Gebedjeliev - representative of the Digital Backpack Consortium DZZD - presented to Burgas teachers and principals the possibilities and numerous functionalities of the innovative educational platform.<end>"Digital Backpack" goes beyond conventional learning methods and provides a wide range of digital learning content in general education subjects. The platform transfers all activities from a real to a digital environment, and this includes the following functionalities available to teachers, students and parents:<end>Benefits for students:<end>A rich set of free interactive educational content in the form of digital lessons on all general education subjects from 1st to 12th grade. The lessons are accessible from any device, and their interactivity makes them a valuable tool in learning abstract concepts and phenomena. The students' grades will be published on the platform, which their parents will also have access to. In addition, students will have unlimited access to the library of educational content across all subjects and grades.<end><end>Benefits for parents:<end>The platform serves as an information and communication channel with the teacher and the institution through which the registered parent will be informed about the child's grades, feedback, absences and weekly curriculum. For younger students, this will facilitate the process of uploading electronic assignments to the platform and tracking the child's progress.<end>Benefits for teachers:<end>In addition to using a digital library and free educational content, the "Digital Backpack" platform also allows the creation of self-authored lessons by installing the free mozaBook presentation software for teachers. It extends the learning toolkit with a variety of illustrations, animations and other presentation options. Effective interactive content and built-in skill-building, illustrative and virtual lab applications help increase student interest and knowledge acquisition.<end><end>Here you can view the possibilities and functionalities that the "Digital Backpack" platform provides to you and your children: https://edu.mon.bg/<end>
"Bulgarian revolutionaries and revivalists" were painted by the students of the Vocational High School for Computer Programming and Innovation under the leadership of Mrs. Zlatka Koeva in the Maritime Casino during an open-air event organized by the Center for Personal Development in Burgas and the Municipality of Burgas.
Students Emma Georgieva - 9th grade, Teodora Lozeva - 9th grade, Vanessa Kardjeva - 10th grade, Daniel Georgiev - 11th grade and Presiyan Stefanov - 11th presented themselves and our school excellently.
We congratulate them and wish them many more appearances!<end> <end>
The visit to the high school of an incredible inspiration, Mrs. Gergana Brunzova, brought us incredible positive emotions, in addition, valuable advice for personal development and success! Success is achieved in a high level of concentration, harmonious development on a physical and spiritual level with specific techniques that everyone can practice on their own. Sharing her successes with the students of the tenth and eleventh grades, she gave valuable advice and filled all those present with positive emotions.
We thank Mrs. Brunzova for the inspiring moments today!<end>
The junior ambassadors of the European Parliament from PGKPI at a meeting of the Municipal Council, Burgas<end>During the past week, the Junior Ambassadors of PGKPI had the honor to attend a meeting of the permanent commission for Science, Innovations and Operational Programs at the Municipality of Burgas. The chairman of the committee, Prof. Dr. Sotir Sotirov personally welcomed the graduates of the high school and explained the structure and functions of the committee. Among the judges were Mr. Ivo Baev, chairman of the committee on legal matters; Mr. Ivan Ivanov - Chairman of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Fisheries; Mr. Georgi Georgiev - Chairman of the Committee on Sports, Children and Youth Activities, Mrs. Violeta Ilieva - Chairman of the Committee on Education and Confessions; Mrs. Diana Savateva - Deputy Mayor of Culture, Tourism and Sports, etc. The ombudsman of Burgas, Mr. Todor Stamboliev revealed the specifics of his work and expressed his approval of the students' interest in the public and political life of the city.<end>The main topic of the agenda of the meeting was the decarbonization of the tourism industry, which occupies one of the leading positions in terms of emitting carbon dioxide. In this regard, Burgas is working hard towards a "green transition" - an economy that does not depend on fossil fuels and polluting industries<end>Regarding the distribution of municipal property for 2023, Mr. Zhivko Dimitrov gave his suggestions.<end>At the council, it became clear about a project discussed with Burgas universities, aiming to turn Burgas into a scientific center in addition to tourism. The intention is to organize scientific forums with master classes of famous speakers from various fields of science. Another part of the program will be applied projects in which students and young scientists integrate theory into practical activities.<end>
On 22.02. a representative performance of the "Adventures in the World of Chemistry" club was held at PGKPI, Burgas. The subject of the class was "Proof of Anions".<end>This is the second in a series of experiments to discover the composition of chemical compounds. In the previous lessons, the young chemists learned how to detect substances by their positive part - the cations.<end>In advance, students explored ways to recognize substances by certain types of anions. After gathering information on the matter, they drew up a plan of action.<end>In addition to information gathering and processing skills, club participants also demonstrated skills for working in a chemical laboratory.<end>At the beginning, the students introduced the audience to the purpose of the experiments, namely to establish the composition of unknown chemical compounds. They ran a series of qualitative reactions and were able to identify the unknown substances. Some of the guests also joined the work of the teams.<end>Finally, the students expressed the reactions with chemical equations and explained the methodology of the experiment to those present.<end><end>
February 18 marks the 150th anniversary of the hanging of Vasil Levski. A convinced democrat and humanist, Levski sacrificed himself in the name of the freedom not only of the Bulgarians, but also of all those wronged in the Ottoman Empire. He created the Internal Revolutionary Organization and prepared a nationwide uprising until his capture on the night of December 27-28, 1872. Investigated and tried by a specially created commission, Levski was hanged on February 18, 1873. near Sofia. His grave is still unknown. The authorities refused his relatives to collect the body and bury it according to Christian custom. Students from the 10th grade prepared a presentation on the anniversary of the death of the Apostle of Freedom. A lesson dedicated to the life and work of Vasil Levski was taught in all classes.<end>Recital for Vasil Levski<end>Link to presentation<end>
02/19/2023 – Project defenses have been successfully completed. And this year, the students presented projects worthy of the national round of the information technology Olympiad.<end>PGKPI has again been designated as a school - coordinator of the Regional Round of the National Olympiad in Information Technologies.<end>The Information Technology Olympiad is held in three rounds - municipal, regional and national. All students from V to XII grades who participate in three competitive groups are allowed to participate in it. They develop their own project (software product) in a specific direction for the respective age group under the guidance of scientific supervisors (teachers, researchers, etc.).<end>This school year, 25 projects from 5 schools reached the District Circle from the Burgas region: PGKPI, OU "Alexander Georgiev-Kodjakafaliyata", PPMG "Acad. Nikola Obreshkov", OU "Lyuben Karavelov" and PGEE "Konstantin Fotinov".<end>The defenses of the projects will take place on 19.02.2023 (Sunday) at 9:00 a.m. according to the attached schedule in halls 104 and 106 of PGKPI-Burgas.<end>All students must report 30 minutes prior to their scheduled defense time. Participants are encouraged to bring their own laptops if more specific software is required. The school provides computer systems with installed MS Office 2016, Visual Studio 2019 and Internet access.<end>
On 10.02.2023, a meeting of the ambassadors from the initiative "Junior Ambassadors of the European Parliament" was held in the Peyo K. Yavorov Regional Library.<end>It was opened at 10:00 by Teodor Stoychev, head of the Bureau of the EP in Bulgaria.<end>After a brief explanation of the program, it was moved on to the official introduction of the junior ambassadors and their teachers/mentors, from each school.<end>The meeting was attended by representatives of:<end>The meeting was also attended by MEP Emil Radev and Prof. Dr. Ingrid Shikova.<end>After the presentations of the schools, the meeting continued with a Kahoot quiz on the topic "What do we know about the euro?" specially prepared by the PG on computer programming and innovation. Finally, six winners were announced, who received special branded products of the school as a prize.<end>After the awarding, a discussion on "Let's talk about the euro" led by Prof. Dr. Ingrid Shikova. With exceptional professionalism and solid knowledge of the subject, she explained to the junior ambassadors the history of the euro and how the eurozone functions. In the process of the dialogue, several myths and speculations were debunked on topics such as: the rise in prices after our admission to the eurozone, the exchange of money abroad, how monthly salaries will change, Bulgaria's readiness for the Eurozone, etc. Throughout the conversation, Mrs. Shikova questioned the young people about the history and peculiarities of the EU and the Euro, and for a correct answer, the answerer received a gift from her. At the end of the talk, the ambassadors had the opportunity to ask Prof. Shikova questions on various topics, and she was able to answer all of them, clearly and accurately.<end>After the discussion, the students of PG in Mechanoelectrical Engineering and Electronics put on a short play in which they explained the main questions that are asked about the transition from BGN to Euro.<end>The next item on the schedule was a meeting and discussion with the Euro MP Emil Radev, on the topic "Ask a Euro MP!". During the time they were together, the ambassadors and Mr. Radev discussed many current topics such as: the war in Ukraine, the admission of Bulgaria in the Eurozone and Schengen, the green deal, etc. Mr. Radev was extremely happy to see the enthusiasm in the eyes of the young people and in his own words: "I am glad that you are so enthusiastic and I think that you will achieve a lot of success." Other topics that they discussed among themselves were: what is being a Euro MP, the biography of Mr. Radev, the future plans of the EU, etc.<end>When the talk was over, there was a group photo and a break for lunch.<end><end>Fed and rested, with renewed strength, the junior ambassadors continued with the activities on the agenda. The next one was again<end>a short play, this time presented by Hristo Botev Secondary School, Aytos, on the theme "I love you, Europe!". In it, they presented topics from the history of the EU in a vivid and highly interactive way, managing to capture the interest of the audience.<end>The last activity of the day was organized by PGCE "Vasil Levski", and was a team game on the topic "Do we know the fundamental rights of the European Union?". In this game, the knowledge of the junior ambassadors was tested about the charter of fundamental rights of the European Union, as there were six teams, and the winning team received a special prize.<end>At 14:00 the meeting was officially closed, all junior ambassadors said their goodbyes and promised to meet again soon!<end> <end>Author: Mr. Sabev Radev IX A<end>
We live in a time where we can find online sources for anything we are interested in and want to know more about. Fortunately, the Internet and mobile applications offer more and more unconventional training options. Mastery of foreign languages ​​and especially English are among the important skills. One of the strategic goals of the high school is for students to have a high level of English that will enable them to read and understand technical literature. The native language of technology is English.<end>The team of foreign language teachers at the high school improves their professional competences by increasing their qualifications and participating in various forms of developing their professional skills. Teachers mainly participated in webinars on topics related to foreign language learning in distance teaching mode.<end>Teaching modern students consistently and at a high level in English is a challenge that the teachers from the Professional High School for Computer Programming and Innovation, Burgas, brilliantly coped with. The team's training concept includes working with Macmillan Publishing's textbooks and additional electronic resources to them.<end>For the first students who passed the training course, we can share their exceptionally high results for the Cambridge Examination Board, with the international certificates in English CAE, level C1. We can proudly state that the team of English language teachers has done an excellent job of implementing the High School's certification policy - 73% of them have achieved B2/C1 level. The result of 10 of them C1 with grade "A", 11 with grade C1 with grade "B", 21 with grade C1 with grade "C" is impressive.<end>For the second year in a row, the high school has the status of a place of study and preparation for the Cambridge exams.<end>Today, we are now confident in the effectiveness of our students' English learning and we are proud to share the results achieved by our students thanks to their wonderful teachers.<end>
"Bulgarian Christmas" is an initiative that for 20 years has united thousands of Bulgarians, driven by their empathy, compassion, nobility and love to help children in need of treatment, as well as hospitals that are modernizing their equipment. The students of the 8th grade of PGKPI with class teacher Mrs. Rositsa Naydenova decided to join the campaign on the eve of Christmas, 2022. collected and donated funds, for which a few days ago they received a diploma and a letter of thanks from the President of the country, Mr. Rumen Radev.<end><end>
This year, for the first time, PMI and CSB series exams will be held at the Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovation.<end>PMI or Project management institute is the only institute in the world that deals with product management. On the territory of the high school, you will be able to defend the first level of their certificates, namely PMR /Project management ready/. This is a certificate that demonstrates your knowledge in areas such as Agile methodology, Traditional project planning and Business analytics. We are attaching the syllabus for the exam.<end>The other exam you can take is Business communication for Business. It shows that you have the so-called "soft" skills. Industry communication skills that are invaluable. We are also attaching the curriculum for it.<end>About collage credits that are recognized by American universities in Europe and universities in the USA:<end>The cost of the exams is as follows<end>If you need exam materials or have additional questions, you can write to [email protected]<end>Please, if there are those who wish to write to the same address.
Places are limited, there are only 6! The exams will be held at the end of February.<end>CSB PC Exam Objectives<end>PMI_Objective Domains<end>CSB PC Exam Objectives<end>PMI_Objective Domains<end>
Visualizing your ideas with the world's best creative applications from Adobe is one of the additional opportunities provided by the Vocational School of Computer Programming and Innovation. For the third year in a row, the high school has additional clubs developing students' skills and knowledge related to graphic design. In 2022, one of our graduates ranked among the top six best graphic designers in Adobe's global competition. Today we already have more than 30 certified graduates in this field and we will compete for the national finals in May 2023. Various professional fields:<end>Visual Design – Soner Solakov, Valeri Ivanov, Denislav Bratoevski, Hristo Rusev, Christian Dimitrov, Stefan Hristov, Egor Semenov<end>Video Design – Denislav Bratoevski, Egor Semenov, Hristo Rusev, Christian Dimitrov, Stefan Hristov<end>Web Authoring – Stoyan Ivanov, Soner Solakov, Valeri Ivanov, Stanislav Tashev, Nikola Peshev, Petya Stoyanova<end>We wish them creative success and successful finals for the world championship!<end>You can read more about the company's certification programs here...<end>
One of the most popular programming languages ​​C ++ has proven its efficiency and ease of development for games, real-time systems and applications with graphics libraries. The course of CISCO - Programming Essentials in C++ is part of the training program in the Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation, and is a good basis for building concepts and techniques that students acquire in programming. Knowledge of C++ is an opportunity to solve the tasks in the fields of Security, Network and IoT.  This first course in a series of 2 courses is at the end of the upper secondary stage of the high school leavers, after which they will gradually expand their opportunities in grades 11 and 12. Those who successfully complete the course receive a 50% discount on the cost of the C++ Professional (CPA) exam. The team of specialists at the high school has endeavored to locate a PearsonVue testing center at the high school's training firm where students can take professional certification exams in a variety of technologies.<end>Seventy XI grade students of the Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation successfully completed the Programming Essentials in C++ course and three of them in the first days of 2023 took the C++ Certified Associate Programmer (CPA) professional exam.<end>We can happily share that Ivaylo M. Abadjiev, Stoyan S. Ivanov and Hristiyan H. Kimryanov successfully passed the international C++ Certified Associate Programmer (CPA) exam with an outstanding result.  For the preparation and their growth in the field of programming, the main role is played by the teachers and the representatives of the companies that lead their production practices. This is followed by production practice, where they will apply the knowledge gained and develop individual tasks consulted by company representatives.<end> <end> <end>
We wish everyone a merry, happy and shared holiday season!
In the Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation, there are incredibly talented artists who have created many of the wonderful drawings dedicated to the holidays. Their leader and inspiration is Mrs. Koeva, an outstanding teacher and always smiling colleague and friend.
We congratulate you with only some of them, but we know that many of the students draw beautifully!
Stefan Hristov 11th grade<end>Kaloyan Iliev, 8th grade<end><end>Presiyan Stefanov 11th grade<end><end>Alexandra Laleva 12th grade<end><end>Vanessa Kardjeva 10th grade<end><end>Plamen Petkov 8th grade<end><end>
Vocational High School of Computer Programming and Innovation wishes happy holidays to all its staff, students and teachers and congratulates them for the wonderful events they organized in the pre-Christmas week. A week filled with wonderful initiatives organized by the classes related to traditional holidays and volunteering for people who are left alone.<end>We started with a wonderful Bulgarian custom of caroling organized by Mrs. Violeta Ivanova, songs and chants for a successful year. The boys were dressed in traditional costumes and for each of the classes there was a special roll call for success. They wished the students of the high school to be successful in front of the central entrance - so it is and so it will be!
Charity initiatives are always important in the days leading up to Christmas and it is important that they are always carried out with lots of love and kindness. Home "Tsveta and Anka Varbanovi" was visited by Jasmina Mihaleva, Toni Chojorova, Petya Stoyanova, Janet Petkova, David Donchev, Ivan Georgiev, Preslav Penchev, Simeon Boev. The game of chess and entertainment program cheered everyone up, we also got gifts of little white angels made by the seniors. Everyone at the Day Center St. Nicholas the Wonderworker was pleasantly surprised by the students of the 8th grade with their class teacher Mrs. Irena Georgieva, who prepared homemade sweets and other treats. We also thank the students of the XII b class, who prepared many cards and Christmas decorations, organized a Christmas bazaar in the city center thanks to the municipality of Burgas. They will provide the collected funds to the global organization UNICEF.<end>The week ended with a wonderful holiday on December 23, during which Mrs. Apostolova and Mrs. Ivanova complemented the holiday by celebrating German Christmas. The application with which the students drew lucky tickets was specially written by Stoyan Ivanov and configured in Azure. There were festive songs and quizzes throughout the day, with Martin Martinov making sure to broadcast everything live on social media, even those who were absent were part of the celebration. Special thanks to the Secretary of the Student Council, Stanislav Tashev, for the organization and synchronization of all activities, as well as to all the students who cooked and bought the delicious sweets that were part of the festive day. There were special nominations for the best students in three areas – English language, mathematics and programming for each class and by graduation. Traditionally, a programming competition was held for the students of classes VIII to X - Christmas Judge 22.<end>Hundreds of cards and pictures were drawn by the high school students under the guidance of Mrs. Koeva. The drawings decorated the gymnasium throughout the week and became part of the gifts we sent to our friends and partners. Thanks to Stefan Hristov, who is the author of all our special edition high school logos and holiday banners. We wish all students who love drawing to become successful designers.
We can admit that we had a wonderfully programmed week with positive emotions!
Happy holidays to all our partners who sent us wishes and pleasantly surprised us from Christmas Day to Christmas!
Be healthy, smile and carry the spirit of goodness within you!<end> <end>
BRAVO to the students of Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovation for ranking in the top ten.<end>
For the fifth year in a row, we will hold the competition related to digital mathematics.<end>We invite the students of classes VIII to X to participate in a competition related to mathematics, technology and programming on December 5, 2020 at 4:00 PM in the high school. The contest is sponsored by DEVA Broadcast and is fee and donation free.<end>The competition involved 120 students from class VIII to X who competed within 60 minutes.<end>The competition was held on December 5, 2020 at 4:00 p.m. in high school!<end>


For the fifth year in a row, we will hold the competition related to digital mathematics.
We invite students from classes VIII to X to participate in a competition related to mathematics, technology and programming on December 5, 2022 at 4:00 p.m. at the Vocational High School for Computer Programming and Innovation.
All students from VIII to X grades, who are educated in day, independent or individual form of education in Bulgarian municipal, state and private schools, have the right to participate in the competition.
Please familiarize yourself with the Competition Regulations.
Please do not miss the registration deadline of December 4, 2022. Use the registration form.
The competition will be held on December 5, 2021 at 16:00 at the Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovation, information and additional instructions follow the competition website!<end>The competition is sponsored by a company<end>
Vocational High School for Computer Programming and Innovation - Burgas is the new winner of this year's edition of the Young Energy Europe project of the German-Bulgarian Chamber of Industry and Commerce (GBITK). The energetic scouts - Kalin Chervenkov, Galin Georgiev, Krasimira Ruseva and Soner Solakov - charmed the demanding jury with a creative idea and excellent presentation skills and overcame strong competitors, some of whom - 73. School "Vladislav Gramatik", Sofia, PGEE "M. Lomonosov", Gorna Oryahovitsa, PMG "P. Beron", Varna, NEG Goethe, Burgas.<end>The team developed a unique application "Power charge" that optimizes the process of charging batteries and extends their life. In addition to preventing problems such as overheating of the battery and its overcharging, the application has an amazing environmental and financial effect. After making calculations, the scouts found that with 50,000 users who use the application daily within one year, BGN 4,200,000 will be saved, and carbon dioxide emissions will be reduced by 425,000 kg. "Power charge" is a ready-to-use application adapted to any operating system and developed in mobile and desktop versions. It is expected to be available for users on Google Play very soon.<end>You can view the Power charge app here:<end>The support of the project mentor - Mr. Ilin Dobrev from Enloc Energy GmbH (Dresden) was indispensable, whom the scouts had the honor to personally welcome to the high school and receive valuable advice and recommendations, both on the project and for the future your professional realization. In this regard, Mr. Dobrev and Mrs. Dimitrina Todorova, director of PGKPI, shared their views on the implementation of a dual form of training together with Enloc Energy.<end>In the middle of this week, we expect the visit of Mrs. Kremena Valcheva and Mrs. Katya Georgieva, PR at GBITK, who will personally present the winners with the grand prize - a voucher for a trip to Berlin, Germany. The program there includes participation in a conference on "Investments and smart solutions", presentation of the "Power charge" application to the eight countries participating in the YEE project; certification ceremony and receiving a special certificate issued by the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Environment (Germany). Scouts will also be able to enjoy the sights of Berlin by boat on the river Spree.<end>After the incredible presentation of PGKPI in the "Energy Scouts" project, GBITK expressed an unequivocal desire to continue working together on future initiatives with the high school and to turn participation in similar projects into a tradition in which the young people of today create the future world - high-tech, ecological and beautiful.<end><end> <end><end>
Congratulations on the excellent performance of Alexandra Staykova, Vanessa Kurdjeva, Iva Nedkova and Alexandra Laleva!
Two first, one second and one third prizes for PGKPI from the national competition for drawing, computer drawing and photography "The sea is not for one vacation 2022".
The competition is organized by the Ministry of Education and Science, National Children's Palace - City of Sofia, RUO- Burgas, Municipality of Burgas and CPLR.<end>The competition is part of the program of the Municipality of Burgas and the local Center for the support of personal development to celebrate the International Day of the Black Sea - October 31.
In the computer drawing section:
FIRST place for Vanessa Kurdjeva, 10th grade.
THIRD place for Alexandra Laleva, 12th grade.
In the photography section:
FIRST place for Aleksandra Staykova, 11th grade
SECOND place for Iva Nedkova, 9th grade.
We are proud of you girls! We wish you many more awards!<end>Our world changes every day, but there are constants. They are eternal, primordial, like the beginning and the end of our very existence. They are beyond and above us and our temporary sojourn on this earth. The sea is a whole world - a separate life, full of hopes, aspirations and long changes. We just have to keep it and take care of it. Because it will continue. It will last forever. Thus, as we gaze up at the sky we can almost spot constellations resembling sea creatures winking at us from the endless sea of ​​stars.  <end>Alexandra Laleva 12th grade <end>
The International Day of the Black Sea - October 31 - was celebrated with an exhibition of photographs, drawings and posters made by students of our high school, under the leadership of Mrs. Zlatka Koeva and Mrs. Darina Kandarova. In the week leading up to that day, chemistry classes also featured presentations made by students of classes IX and X.<end>
